Project title: Seeing AI



Project URL: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/ai/seeing-ai



How AI is used in this project:

          This project uses Optical Character Recognition (OCR) for reading text and scanning documents.
 Face recognition is used to identify the people, their age, how far they are, and their emotions, and then a
 short description is provided. You can create a photo library of friends and family, and the app will tell you 
when someone recognized is nearby. It has a database of products and can recognize them by bar code. Users are guided 
to find the barcode by giving a beep when it is visible and then identifying the product. AI is also used to describe 
the view in front of you and recognizes different currencies, both with the help of object detection. It can identify 
colors and can recognize images in other applications. It can read handwritten text.

 

Why this may help to achieve one of the SDGs:

          This project covers the tenth United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal, called "Reduce inequality" because 
it helps reduce the inequality among people who can't see correctly; therefore, it empowers people with vision disabilities
 to live as closely as possible to normal. In that way, AI assures inclusiveness, and people with disabilities will no longer
 consider themselves forgotten by the world. This application has many videos about how visually impaired people use it and many 
reviews, so it had a significant impact. I also consider that this application covers the third software development goal, "Good 
health and well-being". Now, visually impaired people feel better because they see how they begin to be again a part of society. 

 

Why this project inspires/excites you personally: 

          I am inspired by the people who are now happy and have shared their experiences with this application. I am also 
inspired by the fact that such a big problem has a good solution now, and it gave me hope and motivation that many other
 remarkable things are possible, and this is just the beginning. Health problems, inclusiveness, and the influence of technology 
in the world, especially for health, have amazed me for a long time. I practiced volleyball for many years and had many accidents,
 and I was sometimes surprised by the machines and products which helped doctors investigate and solve problems. I also know that
 people with health problems tend not to be liked that much. However, they must be supported during hard times, so we must make 
them feel like they are still a part of our group. I am studying in the IT field, and applications like this are a pleasure for
 me. This project has many capabilities, so it is like a digital extension of people with visual disabilities. 


